KING OF THE MAGICAL PUMP

		1.
Oh the loyalest Gink with the Royalest wink 
		Is the King of the Magical Pump; 
		Of the magical, tragical pump: 
	The latest and greatest and right-up-to-datest 
	And finest, divinest old I-am-the-State-ist 
Who ever held sway for a year and a day
	 In the Kingdom of Chumpetty-Chump.

		2.
And the magical pump in His Majesty's dump, 
		That, too, is a wonderful thing, 
		A wonderful, thunderful thing. 
	It's wonderful, blunderful, thunderful, plunderful, 
	Cranky and yanky and get-out-and-under-ful: 
And what do you s'pose (if there's no one who knows) 
	What it pumpetty-pumped for the King!

		3.
It pumped up his prunes and his new pantaloons 
		And it pumped up his bibles and beer; 
		His tribal old bibles and beer: 
	For palaces, chalices, garters or galluses, 
	Or jeans for his queens or his Julias and Alices, 
The King of the Chumps, he just went to the pumps 
	And whatever he wished would appear.

		4.
And the Chumpetty-Chumps who were pumping the pumps
		Which pumped up these thing-a-mum bobs, 
		These thing-a-mum, jing-a-mum bobs, 
	They humped it and jumped it and pumpetty-pumped it
	And fearfully, tearfully liked it or lumped it; 
While the King in his glee hollered: "Bully for Me! 
	Ain't you glad that I gave you your jobs?"

		5.
Oh, the Chumpetty-Chumps were a wise lot o' gumps 
		And they said a religious "Amen," 
		A prodigious, religious "Amen." 
	For ages these sages had had (it's outrageous) 
	One jing-a-mum thing-a-mum each as their wages: 
And pray, who could say, if he cut off their pay, 
	What on earth would become of them then?

		6.
But the King of the Chumps was a kindly old Umps 
		And he paid them as much as he durst 
		(As much as all such as he durst) 
	For humping and jumping and pumpty-pump-pumping 
	Anything that a king could imagine their dumping: 
Till he said: "Go to roost, we have over-produced 
	And we've got to get rid of this first."

		7.
Then the Chumpetty-Chumps went to bumping the bumps
		In a tragic and thingum-less plight; 
		In a thingum-less, jingum-less plight:
	They blubbered and lubbered and went to the cupboard -
	"No pumpee, no Chumpee," they said as they rubbered -
Till the loving old King caught a thought on the wing 
	Which was sure to set everything right.

		8.
Said the King of the Pumps to the Chumpetty-Chumps: 
		"It is plain as the face on your nose, 
		As the face on the base of your nose, 
	The lesson this session of business depression 
	Points out beyond doubt is that foreign aggression
 Has caused a big slump in the work of the pump - 
	So up, men, and after your foes!"

		9.
Then in joy and in laughter they upped and went after 
		To fight for their country and King; 
		For their pumpty old country and King:
	 And dashing in, crashing in, bravely they're smashing in;
	(One jingum per dingum they get while they're cashing in)
Until the Big Umps wants to start up the Pumps: 
	When they'll work for one thingum per ding.

		10.
Oh, the loyalest Gink with the royalest wink 
		Is the King of the Magical Pump;
		Of the magical, tragical pump: 
	An oodle of boodle he's got by his noodle 
	And umpty-nine Chumpties he's fed with flap-doodle - 
For we live for a thingum and die for a jingum 
	In the Kingdom of Chumpetty-Chump.