A BALLAD

The Biggest man in creation?
	It was Joseph the Nazarene. 
Joe, the Yiddisher "carpenter stiff,"
	The husband o' Heaven's Queen! 
Joe, that was smitten o' Mary,
	Joe, that was game as grit - 
When she came weepin' to 'is arms,
	Needin' a father for it.

Joe was as right as the compass,
	Joe was as square as the square. 
He knew men's ways with women,
	An' Mary was passin' fair!
 Passin' pretty an' helpless,
	She that he loved th' most, 
God knows what he told th' neighbors, 
	But he knew it warn't no Ghost.

He tuk th' tale as she told it,
	And never th' bat of an eye,
E'en tho' 'is 'eart was breakin'
	Under the load of the lie -  
Steady an' game an' tender,
	When she needed a strong man's care, 
An' then he saddled the ol' jackass,
	An' took 'er away from there.

Took 'er away from th' neighbors,
	That spoke o' th' fit of 'er gown,
 Took 'er away from th' gossips,
	That made 'er th' talk o' the town, 
Comforted, soothed and coddled,
	Just as he might ha' done, 
If it that was heavy within 'er
	Was Joseph's, the Carpenter's son.

Joe, he was silent an' tender,
	Joe, he was game as grit,
 But I'll bet when he walked by Mary,
	To have been the father of it, 
He'd a give all 'is 'opes o' heaven,
	He'd a shot like a bat into 'ell, 
The minute he knew for certain
	That mother and child was well.

Patience surpassin' th' mountains,
	Kindness shamin' the rain, 
When th' sickness came upon her,
	An' she cursed 'im in 'er pain; 
So he came to the manger,
	With Mary makin' 'er moan, 
An' 'e 'eld 'er 'and while she labored
	With a child than wa'n't 'is own!

He looked at th' brat in pity,
	An' 'e held it up to 'is breast, 
That ached with an awful feeling
	That Mary never guessed. 
And 'im an' th' brat they 'it it.

(Carn't yer see 'im standin' there in th' shop lookin' at th' brat like 'is eyes u'd eat 'im up? Carn't yer see th' tenderness when 'e'd show 'im th' 'ow o' th' 'ammer an' saw? Carn't yer see 'im ust lookin' at 'im, and lookin' at 'im, an' a-goin' over an' puttin' 'is arms around 'im an' sayin' to 'isself underneath 'is breath: "Yer mine, God dam it, yer mine any'ow!" An' carn't yer 'ear th' brat, lookin' up, an' sayin', "Daddy"? Yes, 'im an' th' brat, they 'it it.)

	An' after th' years had run, 
Folks tho't no more o' th' gossip, 
	But called in the Carpenter's Son.