GOODBYE

Goodbye, Sweetheart, 
Please don't cry. 
It's Dixie land, or I'm going to die! 
It's the cypress trees and long grey 
	moss,It's the old-time nigger, wid me for 
	de Boss!It's society, Kiddy, the boosted kind. 
	Oh, Dicky, it's home, my home! all 
	mine!

Your North's an excellent country,
 A very intelligent spot; 
But who cares if they're ignorant 
When it's the South they've got? 
Now, I'd much prefer a pine tree, 
Or a moss-covered water oak, 
To all the intellect of Michigan, 
With the profs put in to soak. 
What do I care for your Darwin? 
For hygiene, sanitation, health?
What do I care for learning 
When I've got - Southern wealth!

A wealth of old traditions, 
A wealth of cypress trees, 
Long, gray moss a-floating 
On a peaceful Southern breeze. 
It's the South! the dear old South! 
The Southland that I want. 
	I'm going home - back home.

But listen, little Sweetheart, 
Don't be lonesome, please. 
You remember how you wanted 
Snow storms and Yankee breeze. 
I've truly loved you -  
I never lied but once. 
You're all you ever could be, 
It's me who is the dunce. 
I did not choose my birth place -  
Though I love it none the less.
And it's the cypress trees calling, -  
And the moss, the long gray moss 
Swaying on the oak trees,	It's the South that's calling, don't you 
	know?

It ain't that I've stopped caring,God'll tell you that I do.But when I hear a mocking bird,	How can I think of you? 
I was born there, Sweet One, 
In my dear old silly South. 
And I want to go back home,	Once more.

Oh, I hate it! hate it! hate it!The stupid, stupid South,With never an idea - All conventions, and all mouth.But I want to feel the black dirt,Dear old Black Swamp's peaty dirt.	I want it, don't you see? 
And there ain't no packing firm 
To ship it North to me. 

So I'm going home, my darling, 
To my dear old home down South.	Going to my grandma's grave again. 
Do you know the moss is swinging 
As it swung before she died, 
Waiting there for me, too, - 	When I go. . . . 
But I want to see a cypress tree. 
I want to watch the cane grow. 
To chase a Turkey gobbler 'cross de
	cotton patch.

Goodbye, Sweetheart, dearest little Kid, 
God made you a Yankee, I swear I 
	never did! 
	So it's goodbye, Dicky. 
And the cypress trees for me, 
With the good old Southern laziness 
	That never wants to be!