THE OLD DESERTER

"Forty days . . . forty days . . . forty
	days. . .It seemed to have been going on forever;Not phrases, not even words - only a sound, 
Like a door with rusty hinges swinging in the wind.

Then I noticed him - the remnant of a man. 
Never have I beheld a thing so smashed and tattered 
	as that man's face;

His sixty years or more,With all their records, all the hard-learned, careful 
	craftiness,Were mangled; something had crushed them into a 
	gray pulp. . . Could he have stood up straight he would have to-
	wered above me.I had to bend to hear him.

Hungry he was for talk. 
He tried to hold back and be still; 
But, like flooding streams breaking a puny dam, 
Out of his mind rushed this mad torrent of thought. 
So wild, so muttering-fierce it came, 
It was some time before I caught his drift - 
Feeling only, like the tide in a swirling current, 
His pulsing, insistent ''Forty days . . . forty
	 days. . . "  "Forty days - that's all - just forty days . . .I come from Essen - foreman in the shop I was too - Head of the tool-room, a fine place; light and cool in	summer - 
Best machines in the country - I took care of them like	children.Used to cover them up at night - I guess rust covers 
	them now.(You should see the mills—spiders spinning cobwebs	where we used to spin the cotton!) 
Forty days . . . only forty days . . . and look	at me now!Forty days - just like the old times - you can read it in 
	the Bible:'Forty days there were of flood; forty days of fasting' 
	- hem?Yes, forty days of fools running around and stabbing 
	other fools ; all of them praying to God to help 
	them,And the whole world going crazy. 
I almost went mad myself - My son (curse him!) the worst fool of the lot, went	along with them; 
Singing louder than a drunken man. . . We were more like brothers, we two; we never had	had a quarrel -  
I could have killed him when he said 'Good-bye,' 
And the boys in the street shouted godspeed, and a	couple of women' nudged each other and looked	sneeringly at me.

Yah - what did I care ! I wanted none of their fool's	glory. . . . T
hen, I had to clear out, after all. 
They made me go along—my God, those forty days! 
A hundred million acres ruined by the armies, the red	vultures!Cannon in the wheat-fields and orchards rotting in the	poisonous smoke; 
A hundred towns and cities sacked and burped by	madmen -  
(God! Will I ever forget Louvain!) 
The tramping and the iron rain that never stopped,	and the sickness, and young boys going crazy. . ."And forty days ago I had been working on a draw-
	plate,And the men were standing around me, gossiping at; 
	lunch-time,And Adolph (he was the favorite) was late with the
	beer.I remember how we all waited, thirsty and joking, 
And Karl, my assistant, said, 'Well, I hope he don't;	drink my share . . .' 
And then he came in with the news. 
Forty days ago . . . only forty days . . .It isn't possible. . ."I left him, still mumbling and twisting on his cot - 
His filmed eyes did not even follow me. . . .