SILENCE

"Ruby," said Fannie at last,
After all the small-talk had been exhausted, 
And clothes, food, relatives, Leander's school-work, 
The new Methodist minister, the changed hours at the
	railroad shops, 
The young doctor who had taken the place of the old
	done,
And a score of other similar topics 
Had been mentioned, questioned about, exclaimed over, 
And decently interred conversationally. 
"Ruby, it's been nearly five years since I've seen you, 
And then it was just for a short time, when he died, 
And you were so upset we couldn't talk. 
And before that it had been three years - no, four - 
Since we had talked for any length of time. 
Ruby" - here she shifted her seat a little further from 
	the table,
Applying herself more assiduously to her darning, 
"Ruby, we used to have great talks together 
When we were girls here, and after, 
When you had married Jake Mudd and I, Henry 
	Brown;
And after your Leander was born. . . .
And - somehow - we don't have those same talks now; 
Something is in the way, and I'm not rightly sure 
	what,
But I don't think it's in me.
What's happened to you, Ruby, that has changed you
	so?"
She stopped, half-appalled at her daring, 
Half-consciously virtuous at doing her duty by her
	friend. 
The other sat quietly,
In repose almost for the first moment of the morning; 
But her two restless hands were held taut; T
hen they suddenly fluttered, like the wings of a bird 
	in distress,
Fluttered up to her neck, and pressed her collar a bit
	 wider.
And then she turned to Fannie, and the tears did not 
	come.
Something was unlocked, something loosened, 
As she started speaking quietly and very rapidly: 
"There is something, but I can't lay my fingers on it; 
It's not something you can touch, or rightly speak of; 
Nothing nobody's done,—but it's here just the same, 
Realer than the table there, or this henrietta I'm
	 working on.
I can't tell rightly how to talk about it, Fannie; 
It's nothing that happened since he died - that was a 
	part of it;
And now it's Leander, too, and Jake's brother Aaron
	who lives here,
And the house, and everyone I meet -
Even you. . .
You know we used to laugh, Fannie,
That you, as quiet as a mouse, had drawn Hank Brown, 
As noisy as a house afire, 
And I, who chattered like a trill-sparrow, 
Had married Jake, who never said a word 
Unless you squeezed it out of him. . . 
Jake was good, you know, Fan; he was good to me, 
And he did love me; but he couldn't talk. 
He used to come in, night after night, from his work, - 
We two were alone then - and never say a word, 
Just leave his tin and derby and coat in the hall, 
And walk through the kitchen, and sit in the dining-
	room
Reading his paper. . . At first he used to pat
	me as he passed, 
Just a tap on the shoulder, to take the place of a hello; 
Then he, stopped even that.
At first I would say, 'What's in the paper, dear?'
Anything to get a word out of him,
Sitting there like a very silent Sphinx itself -
And he would hand me the paper without a word.
Supper the same; evening the same;
Day after day, night after night,
With Sunday a longer silence. . . . 
I used to rattle and slam the pans about, to get a kick
	out of him; 
Nary a word.
I used to scold and jaw and almost shake him; 
Nary a word.
I used to talk and talk and talk and talk -  
Nary a word.
And then Leander came. . .
He never cooed and bubbled as other children do,
He was quiet and dour and gloomy then,
Just as you see him today.
I would talk louder and louder,
Anything to break the silence - 
I talk too loud now. No use.
He died - . In some crazy moment
I wonder if he didn't do that too to spite me,
Partly to be shut of my tongue
,Partly to take away from me even the sound
Of his shutting the door as he left for work in the
	morning, 
And shutting it again at night, 
And walking quietly around the. house; 
He went where he could be entirely silent. 
And Aaron - when Jake's brother came here, 
I said to myself, 'The man must talk sometimes'; 
He doesn't . . . 
I've grown afraid of this silence - it's got on my nerves, 
It's all I can hear. . .
I seem to go about, groping my way in it; 
Sometimes it comes over me so 
I stand shaking like a leaf, 
Ready to scream, to do anything, to break it. . . 
Those boarders I took, hoping they would cheer things 
	up, -
But do you know, Fannie, as I am a living woman,
I've heard this silence so long, I couldn't rightly hear
	what they said!
Except that silence. . . .
Fannie, I sometimes think I can't hear rightly 
Except that silence. . . . 
Even your talk is something outside of me, way off, 
Something that can't outtalk this eternal silence. . . . 
So I talk louder and louder - it does no good. . . . 
Sometimes I think - I haven't words to say it -  
The time will come when I can't hear 
Even my own voice, even my own scream, 
Everything smothered in the silence. . . .