TRUCE

We lay on the couch by the window, almost 
	asleep; 
Watching the snow.
She on my breast, a lovely and luminous heap, 
With her head drooping low.
Except for one singing candle's flame, 
And our drowsy whispers, there was no stir in the 
	air.
And, as she smiled and snuggled closer there, 
The Dusk crept up and flowed into the room. 
Softly, with reverent hand, it touched her hair 
That, like a soft brown flower, seemed to bloom 
In the deep lilac gloom. 
Kindly it cam
And laid its blurring fingers on the sharp edges of 
	things;
On books and chairs and figured covering
sAnd all once clear and delicately wrought.
Then, almost hastily,
As though with a last, merciful thought,
It covered, with its hand, the sharp, white square
That stood out in the corner where
The evening paper had been flung - 
Blotting the screaming type that leaped and sung;
Hushed by no horror or shame.....
The brutal head-lines faded; and the room 
Grew softer in the gloom.

She and I on the couch by the window, watching the 
	snow
She half-asleep on my breast, and her fingers
	tangled in mine. 
And still in the room, the uncertain and slow 
Twilight paused with its purple half-shadows, half-
	shine,
Then stopped - as if seeing her it could go
No further, but stood in a trembling glow,
 Like a pilgrim stumbling upon a shrine. . .

Quiet - a reverent and unspoken psalm.
Quiet - as deep-toned as a distant temple-bell
Spreading its measured calm.
Even the streets felt the beneficent balm - 
The shops were golden niches, bright
With squares of cheerful light.
The people passed, wrapped in a genial spell;
Transfigured by the screening snow that fell
Like vast compassionate wings,
Hiding the black world and all sharp-edged things. 
Quiet - ineffable and complete. . . 
Except, far down the street, 
A murmur jarred against the hush, and then 
A newsboys' treble, thin and dying out: 
"Extra - War News Extra. . . All about - "
And silence once again.
Closer the skies were drawn, closer the street;
 And stars began to breathe again and men rejoice, 
While Beauty rose up to defeat 
That boy's high voice,
With its echo and threat of a world unreal; 
Too terrible to reveal. . .

And her fingers tightened in mine and she opened 
	her eyes;
And the laugh of our child rang out, and a sharp
	rift broke in the skies. 
And the clouds, like white banners of Truce hung
	gently above,
With a promise of rest and release. . . 
And the world, like a soft-breasted mother, was an
	intimate heaven of love,
And a pillow of peace.