WOMAN RETURNING

		The Wind to the Trees

Where hath she gone, O haughty eucalyptus? 
	Where hath she gone, O cedars.on the hills? 
Liveoak and cypress, tell me of her going -  
Where is she hidden for whom I have been seeking, 
	Seeking with an anguish and ardor that thrills?

Where hath she gone, O my trees of the forest, 
	Who, in her youth, bore my buffeting with you - 
She who hath faced me in aeons of beginning, 
	Stalwart and staunch and defiant and true?

Where have ye hidden her for whom I must sorrow,
	Who with her mate, and her fast enclosed child 
Marched leagues against me, my rage overcoming, 
Hardy as her brothers and thewed for endurance, 
	Glad of my song in the darkness and the wild?

		
		The Trees Answer

We have not seen her, who once was our beloved,
	Our dear familiar, our close and constant friend. 
Leaves would we give, to clothe her splendid bosom, 
Blossoms would offer, to crown her high borne head -  
	On the dark earth must our petals find an end.

She, who would lean against our trunks for her resting, 
	She, whose lithe arm wrenched our dead boughs from life,
She, who was pleased by the shelter of our branches,
	Drinks no more sap, from the bark that knew her knife.

Where hath she gone? Ah, Brother Wind, we know not.
	Sing we her dirge, who climbs not to her own; 
Where we are strong to strengthen her in labor,
	He, who once came with her, now comes to us, alone!

		
		The Neighboring Sea Calls Out

She is not dead, though she is wan and pallid - 
	Down to my shores, my wave-swept beaches clean,
Slowly she comes, and brings her puny children, 
	When all my mood is gentle and serene.
She hath lost heart for majesty and rapture,
	And dares not hear the choral song I sing -  
Sad as the jetsam that I spurn and scatter -  
Fearful to yield her to my rough caresses - 
	She dares not seize of me the gifts I would bring.

She, whom we worshipped, wind and sea together, 
	Trees on the hillocks, and summits wonder-clad,
She is a queen dethroned, a faith unhonored, 
	A land-locked, silent bay, voiceless and sad.

		
		A WOMAN HEARS, RISES, ANSWERS

Hearken, my brothers, Wind of great complaining,
	Trees of the forest, where the hills stand high, 
Sea of great healthy music, I am coming -  
Hearken, my brothers, for Lo ! I am returning!
	Yield up your questing now, for surely it is I!

Open is the house door, riven is my prison,
	Wide is my cloister and the way winds free; 
I am but flaccid - for long I have been idle - 
	I am but wasted by the years' captivity.

Yet have I lungs, to draw thee to my bosom,
	O Wind of storms and buffetings sublime, 
O Wind of attars, unscented in our cities,
	O Wind unresting and infinite as Time!

O trees beloved, around your boles I fling me, 
	'Neath spreading boughs, in passionate deep peace.
And when my children shall have need of climbing, 
	Them to your arms shall my feeble arms release!

O sea creative I have loved thee ever - 
	Yea, I will lave me thy child in thee content! 
Strong in old rapture upon thy heaving combers -  
Strong in new conquest upon thy cold blue waters - 
	Stronger and stronger now, as thy Creator meant.

Sing ye no dirge, Ï brothers, for my dying!
	I am not dead, indeed, nor yet resigned to die. 
Rather is new life begotten now within me; 
I am returning, sing ye for my coming!
	I am coming strong and free as was that elder I -  
Woman to her earth, her motherland returning - 
	Strong to seek her own and reign - O brothers it is I!