THE MOTHER'S MEETING

I went to a Mother's Meeting,It was on a sunny October after-
	noon;As I walked between the rows of trees, 
New-dressed in warm, ripe shades of	autumn leaf, 
My heart beat to the thought 
That I, too, was dressed in warm, rich	shades -  
Of motherhood.

The women came by ones and twos -  
Tired Mrs. Dyer, who never seemed to	have caught her breath 
From the hurry and toil of her living, 
Her black skirt an inch or two awry -  
A thin wisp of hair protruding from the	hard coil;And old Mrs. McNally who always	fought valiantly
For all the old, conservative, repressed	ideals for women; 
Mrs. Gray a drab, little person 
Who never dared call her soul her own	in open meeting; 
And Mrs. Brown, the minister's efficient	working mate, 
Whose girls were coming into sweet,	alluring womanhood 
From a much-criticized, hoydenish	youth.And Mrs. Graves, who though wife in 
	name,Was still the "old maid" nature had 
	made her - Thin, hard lips, her tight waist buttoned 
	primly over a flat chest.And Mrs. Dean whose face once had 
	doll-like beauty - Now settled into flabby lines of inde-
	cision;As she came up the walk two women 
	drew her latest skeleton from its 
	closet - Whispering about her Nelly who had 
	gone wrong."And lastly Miss Stewart, with the big-
	gest mother-heart of them all,Who, because her own arms had been 
	denied, mothered the town.We went indoors from out the glinting 
	sunlight;The room was a curious blend of the old	and the new -  
Like the minds of the women it held - 
The new, dull-stained table flanked on	the leftBy a stuffed settee of black walnut, 
A copy of a Corot opposite an enlarged	photo of our hostess's father.

There we brought our problems out - 	stealthily -  
Into the half-light;One poor woman told how her little	girls had gone to school 
Only to be polluted by the tongues of	other boys and girls; 
"Evil," she called them, "evil boys and	girls";I saw Miss Stewart quiver with eager-
	ness to talk,Bait she knew they would say she had no 
	right - So, no one raised a voice in their de-
	fense - The defense of the evil boys and girls, 
To say that they were not evil, but only	untaught; 
And when I tried to say it -  
Thinking with bitterness of my own	young wanderings in the mazes of	unexplained life -  
At once a woman cried me down, saying, 
"My gracious me! of course they are	bad!Not bad to talk of such things!Why, I never knew a thing - not a	thing -  
Until my wedding day!" 
She settled back into conscious virtue as	if the last word had been said. 
And there before the company I dared	not call her hypocrite 
Or fool.I could have cried with shame at the un-	worthiness of her thought; 
And to think that it will go on 
Generation after generation of failure, 
Failure to understand.

I came away baffled and angry at the	half-lights 
And the closed doors.