CELL-MATES

Aw, quit yer cryin' kid - I know it's tough,
	But dearie, shush - nobody's goin' to lynch ye; 
Later ye'll find th' cops are square enough - 
	It's always worse the first time that they pinch ye.

Things ain't so bad - now there, don't take on so - 
	The matron won't do nothin' if ye shout, dear.
That's right . . Now come an' tell me all ye know. 
	Ain't ye got nobody to bail ye out, dear?

Well, well - but that's a shame. A kid so cute 
	An' young like youse had never ought to worry.
Gee, if they'd doll ye up, ye'd be a beaut - 
	Why should ye waste yer life in work and hurry.

Oh, there are lots o' ways it could be did - 
	'Course I won't do this much fer ev'rybody - 
I tell ye what, I'm gone to help ye kid, 
	An' I've got infloonce, if my clo'es is shoddy.

S'posin' I could get ye out o' here - 
	Now, now; don't take on like a reg'lar baby - 
Yet pretty lucky that ye met me, dear -  
	What's that? No, not to-night - to-morrow, maybe?

Look here; I got a friend who'll fix it all - 
	Ye see this new judge, well, he didn't know me - 
Poor guy, he's gonna get an awful call;
	An' won't I make him feel a mile below me!

Well, 's I was sayin', when I leave this hole 
	I'll get my friend to go to work an' help ye - 
Don't breathe this here to any livin' soul,
	Fer strangers, dear, is jest the ones to scalp ye.

Now, I've the swellest little flat uptown, 
	An' jolly - somethin' doin' every minute!
There's always some live people hangin' 'roun' -  
	Ye'll never want to leave when once yer in it.

There's lots o' dancin' - jest ye wait an' see 
	The nifty rags I'll get to fit ye, dearie - 
Aw, never mind the thanks - wait till yer free -  
	This gratitood an' sob-stuff makes me weary.

Don't worry now, an' things'll be all right -  
	Ye'll only see th' folks with happy faces -
There'll be no more o' workin' noon an' night
	 An' standin' up all day behind th' laces . . .

Here's the address - now, don't ye lose it, dear;
	An' come right up - don't stop to primp or tidy - 
Gee, but it's lucky that ye met me here . . .
	Let us go to sleep. Good-night, an' see ye Frid'y.