PROPAGANDITTI

He was thin and very dirty - red nose, bleary eyes: 
"Unfair house!" He walked ten steps and turned: 
"Do not patronize!"Ten weeks of strike, ten weeks of losing fight: 
And now the cafe crowds paid no heed, but spurned 
His strident plea: "Don't be a scab!"

My girl held my arm the closer. "It's not rightTo permit that," she said - "I think it's criminal,' wagged her headAnd lightly dropped the subject without knowingHow I almost hated her.

To bind her closer to me I would convert her! 
Dreams I had of saying things to hurt her -  
Wreck that fatuous content, kill her God: 
I planned to roil her placed soul with my rod 
Of indignant propaganda. 
I planned to talk to her of hours, wages, 
Steel mills; statistics from the sages 
Of Marxian lore;Lousy bunk-shacks, wandering workers of the world; 
The pathology of prostitution, 
All that and more!

I knew not what I planned to do........ Here was I with that clinging brat
 Named Conscience - sympathy, pity, "spirit
 Of gravity" - heavy, toadish fat, -   
I had it, I say, squirming in my hands: 
Face up, looking at me and gurgling in its throat -  
Tear-spiller, sapper of my greatest strength, 
Riding me, riding me, riding me until I 
Talked of "sacrificing self": Now cry 
Your last cry for I'm done with you.... 
....I say....I know now what I planned to do.

We walked one night to the glowOf Market street, and then away from it,Going to Pochini's. We hummed a slowLittle melody... My fathers God! We were happyWith a clear, singing happiness that INever believed came to any one.I held tight her arm, conscious alwaysOf the warmth of it,Close enough to breath the odor of her:"Fragrance of her hair"; she strodeAs I strode: "Made for one another,""For ever and ever down the roadOf life": - Old phrases of the erotic code.But I believed them! Oh, I had said them before, 
And lied. Lies I thought them always - Lies like politics and God: I sworeI knew them lies, like all cosmologies.But the warmth of her arm was not a lie,And the memory of the pressure of her lipsOn mine....By God's pallbearers,A living truth is in that lie!  

And as we walked I thought of her,How like a cat she loved a fire, the purr! 
That one expected became a wordless singing, 
Soft and childlike, adequate expression 
Of her content: - Clinched her hands, moved her legs beneath the clingingSilken skirt, stretched herself and sentA sensuous little sigh into the quiet.And in the mornings—this she thought a secret - She sang in bed!They had told me; once I heard. No threatThere of awful problems; she need not ask her headTo make a speculative feather bedOf categoricial imperatives!

I remembered one white night upon the beach, 
Pale light of moon and stars low hanging 
In a thick black sky, near enough to reach; 
Friendly, sibillant swish and boom of surf; 
Two others sitting close like lonesome cows

In shadow-talk and kisses for a night like that! - But she ran like the wind from me,And when I caught her far down the. beach,She dropped her cloak and, body-free,Whirled into a running dance: a fine lineOf some bright color, across the dark monotone of the sea,Rose her singing, singing for me.

We were going to Pochini's . . . She patted my arm: 
"Tell me the dream," she pleaded.

But before I heeded,A ragged, dirty bohunk stepped from out the shadow.Faded overalls heavy boots, his gnarled handsAnd crooked back named him migratory worker,Wanderer through the lands,Harvester of wheat, builder of railroads, lurkerIn the ghastly agencies on Howard street.Poisoned by the "coffee-and" of winter waitsIn cities, poisoned by the air of bunk-shacks,Womanless, childless, terribly alone - Harried slave: he asked a dime for bed.She turned her headAway from him. She said in careless tone, 
"It's warm tonight, warm enough for you
To sleep outdoors." In his face there was no clue 
Of what he might have answered her.

. . . She repeated: "Tell me the dream, dear."
"Of you," I said. And laughed aloud.

(Still have I my choking pity; sometimes I fear 
I'll never master it. My bad conscience, spirit
 Of gravity, that brat I've plucked from off my 
Shoulders, forced it face to face. . . . 'Now cry 
Your last cry'  But still it lives with me, 
Even though Old Nietzsche 
Connive with me to murder it)

	I laughed, for suddenly I knew 
What I had planned to do. This brat of mine 
I thought to perch on her dear shoulders: - She who owned good instincts that lined 
Her world with velvet, that made her blind 
To misery unless that misery threatened her 
Own good peace; this healthy one . . . 
This Dionysian, if you please, singer, dancer;
Possessor - by the whiskers of that mad German - 
Possessor of a freedom from some-certain ills 
For which I'm seeking with all my errant wills.

"Sweetheart," I said; "Placid one, calm-eyed, 
Calm-hearted, cool as are the maids of that far 
Northern country from whence our people came, 
If my cephalic interior were like yours you'd hate 
Me; were yours like mine it would be the same 
Keep that sympathy of yours discriminate;
 Hold tight your stupid God so I won't hurt you, 
Pray that you won't change. I won't convert you!"