WAR-MARCH

		I.
"For this were ye made," the King saith,"
To be sent to death
For the sake of Our thrones:
For this shall your women breed
Fighting-men to our need,
For this ye shall drudge, to mold
Toil into guarding gold - 
For We build Our thrones
Of gold and of slain men's bones,
And this is of God," the King saith.
"Ay," said the Folk, "we know.
Great are God and the King. We go."

		II.

"There is nothing new since the world began,
Nothing new, nothing new," sing the cheery fife and 
	drum.
"There is nothing new in the land of man,
In the death of man, in the hate of man,
We bring mirth to killings in the hand of man,
	Let it come! Let it come! Let it come! 
We have cheered the killings on this earth of man 
Since the birth of man for the mirth of man, 
There is nothing new in all the strife of man,
	Let it come! Let it come! Let it come!"

		III.
Ay, five-and-drum-beat, joy of battle unsealed,
	Hideously merry, shrilly heartening, 
Death-birds settling over the stricken field,
	Widely-circling, sure, unhurried of wing. 
Babes born dead on the earth-heaps, women starving 
	alone,
Skulls turned up in the plowing a century hence in the 
	mold
By peoples battle-dwarfed, fearful,
Ay, fife-and-drum-beat, joy of battle unsealed,
All these are known,
All these are old.

		IV.
Silent troopers tramping down the roadway, 
	(Horror falls when the drums forget to beat)
Heartbreak! Heartbreak! Heartbreak! Heartbreak! 
	Echoes and follows from the heavy-marching feet.
Screaming boys lash-drafted from their plowing, 
	Fear-hushed women hoping for their dead - 
Heartbreak! Heartbreak! Heartbreak! Heartbreak! 
	Answers and follows on the ruthless-passing tread.

Strong young soldiers singing towards their death-place, 
	Never strong more, never to have sons - 
Heartbreak! Heartbreak! Heartbreak! Heartbreak! 
	Throbs their tread above the thunder of the guns.

Stiffened hands that touch no sweetheart ever, 
	Mouths agape, in horrid laughter curled - 
Heartbreak! Heartbreak! Heartbreak! Heartbreak! 
	Echoing and shuddering across the shaken world.

		V.
There is grief on the forsaken fields. 
	("Sorrow!" wail the bugles . . . "Oh, endless sor-
		row and grieving!") 
For the food that shall rot ungarnered, for the hungry
	who shall not eat, 
For the starving years that shall follow the track in the
	trampled wheat, 
For the girl-children tortured and ravished, the old
	women lashed and maimed, 
For the babies nailed up by the foot-palms, for the
	shuddering mothers shamed. 
("Sorrow'!" wail the bugles . . . "Oh, sorrow and
	cruel grieving!") 
For the hearts of our men made brutal, made murder-
	ers evermore,
For the world a century halted by challenging guards 
	of war,
For death . . . and for hate . . . and for hun-
	ger . . .
("Sorrow!" cry the bugles far off in the future . . . 
	"Sorrow!")

		VI.
"Were we made for this?" asked the Folk
Lifting their eyes to peer
A little way from the yoke
Of the toil and the slaughterings
Of the King and his battle-lust,
The King and his Battle-God . . .
And the sullen murmur broke
Like waves when the storm is near;
"The Kings," they said, "are but dust - 
Who hath made God's world for Kings?"