THE DAY OF WAR

A hawk-faced youth with rapacious eyes, standing on a shaky 
	chair, 
Speaks stridulously in the roar of the crossways, under the tower 
	that challenges the skies, terrible like a brandished sword.
A thin crowd, idle, yawning, many-hungered, beggarly, rich with the 		inexhaustible treasures of endless hours of dreaming and 		scheming.
Imperial ruins of the Mob.
Listens to him, wondering why he speaks and why they listen.
The fierce incandescence of noon quivers and drones with the echoes
Of distant clamors, grumbling of voices, blarings of speed-mad fanfares;
But as the roar reaches the group, it turns and recoils and deviates, and 	runs around it,
As a stream runs around a great rock,
And his voice alone is heard in this little island of silence.
His arms go up as he speaks; his white teeth fight savagely with his black 	eyes,
His red tie flows tempestuously in the wind, the unfurled banner of his 	heart amidst the musketry of his young words.
He has been speaking since dawn; he has emerged from the night, and the 	night alone shall submerge him.
They listen to him and wonder, and grope blindly in the maze of his 		words,
They fear his youth and they pity it,
But the sunlight is strong on his head,
And his shadow is heavy and hard upon their faces.

Suddenly, like a flash of yellow flame
The blast of a trumpet shoots by, its notes ramming like bullets against 	the white tower.
The soldiers march up the Avenue. The crowd breaks, scatters, and runs
	away, and only six listeners remain: 
A girl, a newsboy, a drunken man, a Greek who sells rugs, an old man, 		and the stranger I know. 
But he speaks on, louder, with the certainty of the thunder that only 		speaks after the bolt.
"Workers of America, we alone can rehabilitate this generation before 		history. We must and shall stop this war."
The Greek vendor moves on; wearily the old man turns towards a seat, far 	away.
But he speaks on.
"The great voice of Labor shall rise fearlessly today, and the world 		shall listen, and eternity shall record its words." 
The drunken man grumbles, stares at his open hands and lurches away
	towards the approaching tramway. 
But he speaks on.
"Our protest and our anger shall be like a cloudburst, and the masters 		shall tremble. Brothers, don't you see it? The Revolution is at the 	threshold."
The newsboy swings his bag over his shoulder and dashes away through the 	park.
But he speaks on.
"As sure as this sun shall set, so will injustice and tyranny go down. Men 	and women of America, I know that this is the great day."
The stranger I know shrinks in the hollow places of himself; he fades; and 	vanishes, molten in the white heat of that young faith.
But the girl stands still and immobile, her upturned face glowing before 	the brazier of his soul,
As from the tower one by one drop at his feet the twelve tolls of the 		clock that marks time, the time that knows and flows on until his 	day comes. 
And the girl, and the tower, and he
Are the only three things that stand straight and rigid and 			inexpugnable
Amidst the red omens of war,
In the fulness of the day,
In the whiteness of the noonlight,
In the city of dread and uproar.