DARKNESS BEFORE DAWN

God of our sires, Who reigneth so unsteadily,
	Nodding on Thy heavenly throne, impassive to our care, 
Worshipful and wonderful, we shall forgive Thee readily, 
	If Thou canst shake Thy sloth and give attention to our prayer.

Long have we prayed! We waited long and loyally;
	Long the storm was gathering - we trusted, and were dumb. 
Lord Jehovah terrible, we waited for Thee royally
	To sweep the clouds asunder and to let Thy kingdom come.

Where went our prayers when we, Thy debtors, perishing, 
	Paid Thy grim debt while our little ones were slain?
Where went Thy light when the faith that we were cherishing 
	Strove to learn the lesson of our shameful, sinful pain?

Still wert Thou Lord ! We knew that Thou wert glorious;
	Dark were Thy ways - but what Thou wroughtst was right; 
What hast Thou done that we should hail, victorious,
	The Lord God of Hosts we served with anguish in His fight?

Salt bread of life Thou gav'st when we were sickening, 
	Bitter with the sweat and tears Thy mercy had denied;
Fierce was the fire Thou sentest for our quickening, 
	Black was the smoke that Thou raisedst for our guide!

Sleek were Thy priests and awful was Thy Trinity,
	Wild were the wars Thou hast smiled at, from on high!
Tyrants and tortures attested Thy divinity,
	Living, we should praise Thee, and worshipping should die!

Free was Thy house, but enslaved was all humanity;
	Fain would we kiss the rod, for Thou couldst never err; 
Happiness and brotherhood—all was futile vanity!
	Foreordained, Thy will divine had made us what we were!

Long was the night; Thy dream obsessed us wearily;
	Now, half awakening, we hunger for the day! 
Purblind our eyes, but we see Thy presence eerily - 
	Stand Thou aloof, Lord, till WE have found the way!

Priestcraft hath crowned Thee, kings enthroned Thine awfulness, 
	Gold hath wrought Thy scepter, and Might hath raised Thy state;
Puppet of Expediency, servant of Unlawfulness,
	How Thou hast tricked us with the Word that they dictate.

Lo, we are men! Our need hath sought Thee greedily, 
	But slack is Thy will, and we ask no more of Thee.
If Thou couldst bless, Thou wouldst have done it speedily; 
	Unafraid we tweak Thy beard, Thy masters now are we!

So, ere the dawn, when tyrants chains are fettering, 
	This is our word to Thee, a last and scornful prayer,
No more we trust Thy power of any lightest bettering; 
	Make Thy load too burdensome for human kind to bear!

Now sure the Lord, Who winked at grievous slavery,
	He can unstop, at least, the vials of His wrath! 
Graciously permit, we pray, a still more cruel knavery,
	A faster, fiercer progress on Thy burning, bloody path!

Nay, we beseech ! O, grant us this vicissitude,
	The last screw of anguish, extremity of wrong; 
Then, Oh, Eternal One, have done with Thy solicitude;
	Then shall we arise as Men ; despair shall make us strong.

So shall we find our weapon for Eternity,
	So shall be captained with Justice and with Truth;
So going forth to the battle for Fraternity,
	Ours shall be the victory - and Thine the awful ruth!

Sleep, then, and dream, œ God of ancient mysteries, 
	Ended Thy sovereignty, the mockery of Thy plan;
Locked be the volume of all Thy gory histories - 
	The cross and crown achieved again, to grace the Son of Man!

Sleep, then, and dream ; and let her slave Thou scorified 
	Snatch up Thy majesty and wield it once again!
Lo, Thou has failed, but Man, divinely glorified, 
	He shall achieve alone the Brotherhood of Man!