TO OUR ST. ANTHONY

O Anthony, St. Anthony, we humbly bow to thee, 
To thy most holy ignorance and matchless purity. 
Thou seizest our magazines, but even though we've
	 missed 'em,
'Twas for our moral uplift that we built the postal system. 
Oh, speed the day, we pray thee, to that pure and virtuous 
	ending
When all shall be as dull as thee and Nature'll quit offending.

Protect our brains, dear stupid saint, from everything that's 			human,
Especially from the loathesome thought that we were born of 
	woman.
Oh, speed the darkness that shall spread from Maine clear
	down to Texas, 
When no American shall know the secret of the sexes; 
When all shall presuppose, with minds forever free from sin, 
That woman's shape does not extend far down below her chin.

Unsex our drama, Anthony, by taking woman out; 
Destroy all art; for goodness sake, put literature to rout. 
Burn all those awful books that tell how chickens come from 
	eggs;
Burn all those awful pictures where the ladies all have legs - 
And may our postal laws, dear saint, drop heavily, kerchug, 
On every sexual reference to man or brute or bug.

And dost thou not, dear saint, perceive a great contamination 
In books about the doings of the vegetable creation? 
Thy holy mind, undoubtedly, must view with eyes askance 
Those dreadful, lewd directions how to fertilize the plants. 
Oh bless us, saint, with all the virtuous ignorance we need, 
To keep our minds protected from the secret of the seed.

We trust that thou wilt drape the curs that wander past our flat
 And put at least a fig leaf on our neighbor's Thomas cat. 
Go out into our pastures, please, and civilize the herds; 
And while thou'rt at it, Anthony, put pants upon the birds. 
From horrid sights of Nature we would be forever free; 
If need be, gouge our eyes out so we'll be as blind as thee.

And when thou'rt finished, Anthony, with art and Nature, too, 
And all that's male or female has come under thy taboo; 
And when at last all things in sight are stamped with thy 
	approval,
Or else with some anathema that calls for their removal;
We hope that thou wilt guide us where our sinful nature fails,
By stamping every woman with:

	"EXCLUDED FROM THE MALES."