A SONG OF BEAUTY

I know what Nature is and her largesse.
I know that her beauty is infinite. 
Her freedom perfect and her tenderness everlasting. 
My throat yearns to sing a song of beauty, 
For my soul keeps in its secret chamber 
The madness of a wind-swept hilltop, 
Where, from under a shading laurel, 
We watched the white clouds lure the winds, their
	lovers,
Down into the caverns of the sky, 
And all was freedom.
The little birds fluttered in and out the leafy coverts;
The hawks slanted to the breeze,
And the squirrels ran about,
Sitting erect, suddenly, questioning.
The flowers blossomed without a governor,
And the beautiful madrona-trees,
With limbs smooth as the limbs of nymphs,
Whispered to the roving winds.
But you, my brothers and my sisters,
Cannot watch the depthless blue
From under a wide-spreading oak.
There are hills for all and oaks for all,
And the airy blue covers the world;
But you may not lie at ease awhile upon a hilltop,
And examine your souls.
You sit under a dark roof through which
Filters neither sun, nor stars.
You are robbed of your inheritance.

From the hilltop may be seen the skyey threads 
Which are the rivers. 
I may go down to them and lie by them, 
Refilling the vessels of my soul;
But what to you, oh work-worn, weary ones,
Are the secret conversations of the waters?
Do they carry you afar, enchanted and enthralled,
Like half-heard, mystic, murmured incantations
Of soft-shod, hushed magicians
Who lift you, sleeping, and in Lethean languor
Bear you unto the perfect meadows?
Do the white-handed nymphs await your coming
And hide within the fragrant fringes,
Slender rushes, mint and mallow?
Do you, Life-cheated brothers,
Hear the continuous warble of the hidden nymphs? 
Their far, faint laughter?

Young lovers lie upon the grass
And listen to the river's muttered conversations;
Little children splash their white bodies
With bright crystals,
And the indignant magpies fly, screaming, 
From the willows; royal fellows in black-and-white, 
Who surely were once a princess, appareled in 
	ermine;
All the beasts and fowl of the Desert,
In the evening, come to drink,
And the river refuses not life to any.
Far down its course, it is led out
Upon the alfalfa-fields, where the poplars
Watch about the garden,
And an old man stands upon the bank.
To him the voices of the water murmur, "Peace."
They are calling to him the call of Eternity.
But, to the haggard ones who toil,
The conversation of the waters
Comes as the sullen voice of Moloch,
Grumbling and growling in the roll of the wheels
Which grind up flesh,
"Work! Work! Work!"
Endless as the river's flowing.
"Toil! Toil! Toil!"
Ceaseless as the river's murmur.
Never! Never! Never!
Knowing peace or beauty.

I am consumed with pity for the millions of weary 
	workers
Who drudge till their last shred snaps, 
And over them, cowering, clouding, 
Like a sentinel-ghost threatening, terrifying,
 Ever stands the all-degrading Penury of Age; 
A Dread, shadowy but relentless, 
Which perches on your backs, my brothers and my 
	sisters,
As a magpie perches on the back of a lean cow, 
Awaiting death by the dry water-hole; 
Patient, persistent, never leaving.

The toilers know not the song of the waters,
Nor the sympathy of the grass;
They bathe not their souls in the pools of leisure,
Nor ever cast their eyes upward
Where the clouds, reckless, set their silver sails
	upon the upper main, 
Nor ever look upon the meadows where the carefully
	tended cattle lie among the buttercups.
They know not the sweet, respected weakness of 
	age.
Age cannot work, and Death delays too long.