THE WASH

Mrs. Driggs came in and dried her hands.
The doorway, before the door swung shut, 
Showed two long lines of wash hung in the yard -  
They hid the view where the fields beyond 
Ran far to find the woods, 
Gray with young winter. 
The room was now in shadow, 
And the woman,
Crumpling her apron, hand about hand, 
Sighed.

"They're coming, mother!"
Called from somewhere front in the house a girl's voice
Shrill and excited;
"Mrs. Watson's got new furs,
And old Mrs. McGrey's fit to go to church,
And so's the minister's wife.
I've set the parlor chairs."

"Bring them in here, Alice," said Mrs. Driggs, 
"And you go find and watch Maudie and Ben."
 And presently Alice showed them into the kitchen 
And they sat down in a row on the kitchen settle, 
Mrs. Watson, Mrs. McGrey and the minister's wife -  
The church Relief Committee -  
And Mrs. Driggs stood wet before them, 
Waiting
Alice slipped out.

A thread of steam trickled up from the boiler on the
	stove,
The water bubbled against the rusty tin.

Mrs. Watson fidgeted
And threw back the fine fox-skin from her neck, 
And spoke.
"Where are little Maudie and Ben this nice day?
 Playing?"

"I guess," said Mrs. Driggs. "They're always playing. 
I don't have time so's to keep after them as I should."

Mrs. McGrey leaned forward, loosening her dry, wrin-
	kled throat, 
And smiled,
And tried to make her voice understanding and merci-
	ful.
"Of course, Mrs. Driggs," she said, "we know. 
We have your letter to the Committee."

"Then I do hope you'll do the way I asked in it!" 
The washer-woman crumpled and uncrumpled her apron 
And then pushed back a straggle of hair from her eyes. 
"It would help me lots more than just the wash. 
You're good to give that to me, so much of it,
 But a little ready money instead 
To lessen the need of my having to do all of it, 
To ease the work,
Would give me more time - and it's that I want; 
More time to be able to look after the children. 
Now they're running wild, and I'm afraid -  
I'm afraid there's wickedness in their blood, though I
	should say it, 
Young as they are, Ben five and Maudie seven. 
But I keep thinking of their father and my boy Herbert 
Taking the drink like him. 
Maybe if I'd had more time 
To watch and keep after him and teach him, 
He wouldn't be the same;
But I had the work then like I have the work now."

"Haven't you heard from your husband or Herbert
	lately," 
Asked the minister's wife.

"No, Mrs. Elliot.
George has been in the city, I guess - God knows - 
A month now. Herb was in last night a space.
He'd been drinking. I wouldn't give him the money
	he wanted. 
And he left. He hasn't come back."

"You see," said Mrs. Watson, "that would be the 
	trouble
If we were to let you have the allowance 
Instead of sending you our wash and the congrega-
	tion's - 
As much of it as you can do.
Your boy or your husband would be after it.
I think the plan as it stands now is better."

"But I didn't give it to him. 
I've got my need of it. 
And what I asked you forWas only two dollars, not so much wash the week. "Look," she pointed suddenly out the window, 
"Since I came to this town six years ago,
 With George taken to the drink and Herb already going, 
Those two lines have been hanging there like that, 
Heavy and flapping, outside that window, 
Making dark this room."
"You should have been glad, Mrs. Driggs, 
To have the work," 
Said Mrs. McGrey.

"And so I was, and am.B
ut I want the time more than the work,
With a little to keep me going easy - 
Time to watch Maudie and Ben,
And a little on hand to feed them.
If I'd had the time, who knows,
I might have trained Herby up to be right,
I might have made a good fellow of him.

But while I was washing the clothes
He was dirtying his young soul and body,
Just as Bennie and Maud may be dirtying theirs,
For all I know.
Then there's Alice."

Mrs. Elliot stole a furtive glance at the other women.
"Yes," she said, "there's Alice.
Alice is getting pretty and - mature.
It might be well, of course, to watch her."
Mrs. Elliot twisted on the settle.

"You're meaning the trouble she got in with the
	Roberts boy." 
Mrs. Driggs ceased plving with dumb hands of habit 
That vice, her apron. 
Rugged and blue
In the vague light, she stood
And faced the tribunal on the settle.
And she said in a voice that boiled
And choked like the old tin boiler,
"I suppose you are blaming her for it.
Well, it's not her fault - it's mine
That I've got to work, and it's yours
That you make me work.
I ask you for two dollars a week
Instead of so many clothes for the line,
So's I won't have to scrape and scrape
And wash and wash, and dry and iron and carry,
Letting my children go untaught, uncared, almost un-
	prayed for, 
Just to keep them in food and cover, 
Nourishing them that sin and time will make rotten, 
When they had better die right off
 And lie safe in the ground,
Who never should have come into the world, 
With their chance!
It won't end with Alice - that's what frightens me.
Miaudie and Ben will follow;
t's in them, poor little wild scraggy things.
What have they to do but pick up evil,
Never knowing.
Children get to be curious, little; 
Littler than the Roberts boy, Mrs. Watson, 
Who was curious about Alice without her knowing, 
And I dare say she curious about him. 
It's terrible and awful to say,
 But, while I'm in here with the tubs and boiler 
Or out yonder hanging up and taking down, 
Those two, Maud and Ben, may be getting curious about
	 each other,
Learning things they shouldn't that'll dirty their little 
	lives like poison."

Mrs. Watson, Mrs. McGrey and Mrs. Elliot
Suddenly shuddered and stirred along the settle. 
Mrs. McGrey said,
"What an awful thought, Mrs. Driggs."

"Then will you give me the money?" 
She asked.
"That's the only way out I know. 
I can give them some of my time then, 
Learn them what is safe and likely to keep them clean, 
And give their minds what children's should have, a 
	proper weeding."

"But you haven't tried sending them to Sunday school," 
Said Mrs. Elliot, "have you?"

"You don't know that our giving you the money 
Without your earning it,
Wouldn't hurt your pride and respect
Or make you feel dependent and grow careless - 
I don't mean to be rude, Mrs. Driggs,
But you haven't thought of its doing that,
Have you," spoke Mrs. McGrey."

"And have you thought, Mrs. Driggs,
That two dollars wouldn't mean so much - 
By way of lightening your work, I mean - after all,"
Said Mrs. Watson.

The three sat stern on the settle. 
They were like the Fates.
Outside the air went windy and in beauty through the 
	sunlight.
Mrs. Driggs stood in her prison
And considered the thread they spun for her
And how they would cut it,
And she answered:
"Yes, I have thought of all that -  
Nights and days,
Mending their clothes and washing yours,
I've thought of it - 
How they would look, Mrs. Elliot,
In your husband's Sunday school,
Beside your own little girl dressed pretty as yourself,
They sitting there, torn and patched,
Ignorant of the good of the Lord and the words thereof.
Heathens in and out of church,
Because their mother couldn't cherish them
And letter them;
And I've thought, Mrs. McGrey, how hard it would be 
To take money I wasn't paying for - with sweat and
	heartache and the salvation of my little ones -
How it might make me feel too easy, 
And like sitting in the sun, sleeping like an old pauper; 
How I might work no more, 
But live on that two dollars 
And fatten my family, 
Till we all sunk with laziness 
And got carted to the poorhouse; 
And, Mrs. Watson,
I've thought of the difference that money would
	make -  
Just the time, or more,
Of doing the week's wash of any of you ladies -
A precious morning and afternoon,
As washing and wringing and drying and ironing
	and doing up 
Goes - 
The time it takes you to go in your automobile any
	sunny day 
From this town to the city 
To shop and back - 
Twelve hours of light and air and freedom -  
Twelve blessed hours given me by the Lord to take
	care of my children in, 
Which you have taken away; 
I've thought so long and so deep and so hard 
That if I didn't need your money for the work of my
	hands, 
I'd say,
 Go!
And never darken my door again,
For the sins of Herb and Alice are on your heads,
And the sins that may be of Maudie and Ben, 
And my own tears and toil too."

There was a silence
Like that after close thunder.
Then the door came open with the wind,
Secretly,
And the women as one looked out into the yard,
And Mrs. Driggs cried out.
They saw Maudie and Ben
Under the hiding dank lines of the wash.
The sun shone thinly in,
Lighting the kitchen and the faces
Of Mrs. Watson and Mrs. McGrey and Mrs. Elliot,
And Mrs. Driggs.