TO BILLY SUNDAY

You come along . . . tearing your shirt . . . 
	yelling about Jesus.
I want to know . . . what the hell . . . 
	you know about Jesus.

Jesus had a way of talking soft and everybody except 
	a few bankers and higher-ups among the con men 
	of Jerusalem liked to have this Jesus around be-
	cause he never made any fake passes and every-
	thing he said went and he helped the sick and 
	gave the people hope.

You come along squirting words at us, shaking your 
	fist and calling us damn fools so fierce the froth 
	of your own spit slobbers over your lips - always 
	blabbing we're all going to hell straight off and 
	you know all about it.

I've read Jesus' words. I know what he said. You 
	don't throw any scare into me. I've got your 
	number. I know how much you know about 
	Jesus.

He never came near clean people or dirty people but 
	they felt cleaner because he came along. It was 
	your crowd of bankers and business men and law-
	yers that hired the sluggers and murderers who 
	put Jesus out of the running.

I say it was the same bunch that's backing you that 
	nailed the nails into the hands of this Jesus of 
	Nazareth. He had lined up against him the same 
	crooks and strong-arm men now lined up with you
	 paying your way.

This Jesus guy was good to look at, smelled good, 
	listened good. He threw out something fresh and 
	beautiful from the skin of his body and the touch 
	of his hands wherever he passed along.

You, Billy Sunday, put a smut on every human blo-
	ssom that comes in reach of your rotten breath 
	belching about hell-fire and hiccuping about this 
	man who lived a clean life in Galilee.

When are you going to quit making the carpenters 
	build emergency hospitals for women and girls 
	driven crazy with wrecked nerves from your god-
	dam gibberish about Jesus - I put it to you again: 
	What the hell do you know about Jesus?

Go ahead and bust all the chairs you want to. Smash 
	a whole wagon load of furniture at every perform-
	ance. Turn sixty somersaults and stand on your 
	nutty head. If it wasn't for the way you scare 
	women and kids, I'd feel sorry for you and pass 
	the hat.

I like to watch a good four-flusher work but not when 
	he starts people to puking and calling for the 
	doctors.

I like a man that's got guts and can pull off a great, 
	original performance, but you - hell, you're only a 
	bughouse peddler of second-hand gospel - you're 
	only shoving out a phoney imitation of the goods 
	this Jesus guy told us ought to be free as air and 			sunlight.

Sometimes I wonder what sort of pups born from 
	mongrel bitches there are in the world less heroic 
	than you.

You tell people living in shanties Jesus is going to fix 
	it up all right with them by giving them mansions 
	in the skies after they're dead and the worms have 
	eaten 'em.

You tell $6 a week department store girls all they 
	need is Jesus; you take a steel trust wop, dead 
	without having lived, gray and shrunken at forty 
	years of age, and you tell him to look at Jesus on t
	he cross and he'll be all right.

You tell poor people they don't need any more money 
	on pay day and even if it's fierce to be out of a job, 
	Jesus'll fix that all right, all right - all they gotta 
	do is take Jesus the way you say.

I'm telling you this Jesus guy wouldn't stand for 
	the stuff you're handing out. Jesus played it different. 
	The bankers and corporation lawyers of Jerusalem 
	got their sluggers and murderers to go after Jesus 
	just because Jesus wouldn't play their game. He 
	didn't sit in with the big thieves.

I don't want a lot of gab from the bunkshooter in my 
	religion.

I won't take my religion from a man who never works 
	except with his mouth and never cherishes a 
	memory except the face of the woman on the 
	American silver dollar.

I ask you to come through and show me where you're 
	pouring out the blood of your life.

I've been in this suburb of Jerusalem they call Gol-
	gotha, where they nailed Him, and I know if the 
	story is straight it was real blood ran from his 
	hand and the nail-holes, and it was real blood 
	spurted out where the spear of the Roman soldier 
	rammed in between the ribs of this Jesus of 
	Nazareth.