THE TRAPPERS

Before the courtroom she must stand 
To face the thing men call the Law, 
And she must swear by her right hand 
(O most of all that pleads - her hand!) 
Against the thing he says he saw -
The man who walks with silken tread 
To snare the living and the dead - 
The watcher with the hungry jaw.

Before the courtroom she must stand 
In young dismay, in anxious awe, - 
A girl with tender hair - each strand 
(Our loved ones' hair is of such strand) 
Is soiled by what he says he saw - 
The man who testifies by rote, 
Because the city pays him groat 
To bring the bruised to the Law.

That other man will take his word - The man who speaks the Law's intent,And lets her story go unheard(O the young heart, alone, unheard!)That cries with her bewilderment - The man behind the justice-rack,His sight black as his robe is black,By whose hands souls are broke and beat.What though her manner nothing speaks 
Of the red sisterhood of shame?
 He sets the stigma on her cheeks 
(Upon her sudden frozen cheeks) 
And brands her future with its name - 
The man who slays Christ at each word, 
Damning a little girl unheard 
To night and hell beyond all flame!For he has killed her self-respect,And called from her a bitter cry ;For he has bade her go direct '(By Law has driven her direct!)And be the thing he took to try; - He would not look to see the face
Of childhood perilled by disgrace,He would not speak the Law thereby.The Workhouse will set print on her, 
And they will take her. print of hand, 
And know her when she goes to err 
(The little prints they never err!) 
Hereafter to that deepest land. 
The one will speck her heart at root, 
The other smudge her good repute -  
Till the last tick and the last sand.Till the last sand, till the last tickOf that sad time-piece she shall be - The thing men kiss and after kick (A sterile kiss, a brutal kick)Through all the Street of Infamy!Her beauty shall bespark the nightYet be to her a prison light - She never after shall go free.But in a courtroom she must standOfttimes, to face the Law, defy; Ofttimes must swear by her right hand(O hopeless hand! O fallen hand!)Against what he will testify - The man who walks with silken treadTo snare the long, but living, dead -To him who speaks the Law thereby.