WHEN THE COCK CROWS

		I.
SIX MEN drove up to his house at midnight, and woke the poor woman who kept it, 
And asked her: "Where is the man who spoke against war and insulted the army? 
And the old woman took fear of the men and the hour, and showed them the 	room where he slept, . 
And when they made sure it was he whom they wanted, they dragged him out of 	his bed with blows, tho' he was willing to walk, 
And they fastened his hands on his back, and they drove him across the 	black night. 
And there was no moon and no stars and not any visible thing, and even the faces of the men were eaten with the leprosy of the dark, for they were 	masked with black shame.
And nothing showed in the gloom save the glow of his eyes and the flame of 	his soul that scorched the face of Death.

		II.
NO ONE gave witness of what they did to him, after they took him away, 		until a dog barked at his corpse,
But I know, for I have seen masked men with the rope, and the eyeless 		things that howl against the sun, and I have ridden beside the 		hangman at midnight.
They kicked him, they cursed him, they pushed him, they spat On his cheeks 	and his brow,They stabbed his ears with foul oaths, they smeared 	his clean face with the pus of their ulcerous words,
And nobody saw or heard them. But I call you to witness John Brown, I call 	you to witness, you Molly Macguires, 
And you, Albert Parsons, George Engel, Adolph Fischer, August Spies, 
And you, Leo Frank, kinsman of Jesus, and you, Joe Hill, twice my germane 	in the rage of the song and the fray,
And all of you, sun-dark brothers, and all of you harriers of torpid 		faiths, hasteners ofthe great day, propitiators of the holy deed, 
I call you all to the bar of the dawn to give witness if this is not what 	they do inAmerica when they wake up men at midnight to hang them 	until they're dead.

		III.

UNDER a railroad trestle, under the heart-rib of Progress, they circled his 	neck withthe noose, but never a word he spoke. 
Never a word he uttered, and they grew weak from his silence,
For the terror of death is strongest upon the men with the rope, 
When he who must hang breathes neither a prayer nor a curse,
Nor speaks any word, nor looks around, nor does anything save to chew his 	bit oftobacco and yawn with unsated sleep. 
They grew afraid of the hidden moon and the stars, they grew afraid of the 	wind thatheld its breath, and of the living things that never 		stirred in their sleep, 
And they gurgled a bargain to him from under their masks.
I know what they promised to him, for I have heard thrice the bargains that 	hounds yelp to the trapped lion:
They asked him to promise that he would turn back from his road, that he 	would eatcarrion as they, that he would lap the leash for the sake 	of the offals, as they - and thus he would save his life.
But not one lone word he answered - he only chewed his bit of tobacco in 	silent contempt.

		IV.
NOW BLACK as their faces became whatever had been white inside of the six 	men,even to their mothers' milk, 
And they inflicted on him the final shame, and ordered that he should kiss 	the flag 
They always make bounden men kiss the flag in America, where men never kiss 	men not even when they march forth to die. 
But tho' to him all flags are holy that men fight for and death hallows, 
He did not kiss it - I swear it by the one that shall wrap my body. 
He did not kiss it, and they trampled upon him in their frenzy that had no 	retreat save the rope,
And to him who was ready to die for a light he would never see shine, they 	said: "You are a coward."
To him who would not barter a meaningless word for his life, they said: 	"You are a traitor,"
And they drew the noose round his neck, and they pulled him up to the 		trestle, andthey watched him until he was dead, 
Six masked men whose faces were eaten with the cancer of the dark, 
One for each steeple of thy temple, O Labor.

		V.
NOW HE IS dead, but now that he is dead is the door of your dungeon faster, 	O money changers and scribes, and priests and masters of slaves? 
Are men now readier to die for you without asking the wherefore of the 		slaughter? 
Shall now the pent-up spirit no longer connive with the sun against your 	midnight? 
And are we now all reconciled to your rule, and are you safer and we 		humbler, and isthe night eternal and the day forever blotted out of 	the skies, 
And all blind yesterdays risen, and all tomorrows entombed,
Because of six faceless men and ten feet of rope and one corpse dangling 	unseen irtthe blackness under a railroad trestle? 
No, I say, no. It swings like a terrible pendulum that shall soon ring out 	a mad tocsinand call the red cock to the crowing. 
No, I say, no, for someone will bear witness of this to the dawn, 
Someone will stand straight and fearless tomorrow between the armed 		hosts of yourslaves, and shout to them the challenge of that 		silence you could not break.

		VI.
"BROTHERS - he will shout to them - are you then, the Godborn, reduced to a 	mute of dogs
That you will rush to the hunt of your kin at the blowing of a horn?
Brothers, have then the centuries that created new suns in the heavens, 	gouged out the eyes of your soul, 
That you should wallow in your blood like swine, 
That you should squirm like rats in a carrion,
That you, who astonished the eagles, should beat blindly about the night of 	murder like bats?
Are you, Brothers, who were meant to scale the stars, to crouch forever 	before a foot stool,
And listen forever to one word of shame and subjection,
And leave the plough in the furrow, the trowel on the wall, the hammer on 	the anvil, and the heart of the race on the knees of screaming 		women, and the future of the race in the hands of babbling 		children,
And yoke on your shoulders the halter of hatred and fury,
And dash head-down against the bastions of folly,
Because a colored cloth waves in the air, because a drum beats in the 		street,
Because six men have promised you a piece of ribbon on your coat, a carved 	tablet ona wall and your name in a list bordered with black? 
Shall you, then, be forever the stewards of death, when life waits for you 	like a bride? 
Ah no, Brothers, not for this did our mothers shriek with pain and delight 	when we tore their flanks with our first cry; 
Not for this were we given command of the beasts,Not with blood but with 	sweat were we bidden to achieve our salvation. 
Behold! I announce now to you a great tidings of joy,
For if your hands that are gathered in sheaves for the sickle of war unite 	as a bouquetof flowers between the warm breasts of peace, 
Freedom will come without any blows save the hammers on the chains of your 	wrists,and the picks on the walls of your jails! 
Arise, and against every hand jeweled with the rubies of murder, 
Against every mouth that sneers at the tears of mercy, 
Against every foul smell of the earth,
Against every head that a footstool raises over your head,
Against every word that was written before this was said,
Against every happiness that never knew sorrow,
And every glory that never knew love and sweat,
Against silence and death, and fear
Arise with a mighty roar!
Arise and declare your war;
For the wind of the dawn is blowing,
For the eyes of the East are glowing,
For the lark is up and the cock is crowing,
And the day of judgment is here!"

		VII.
THUS shall he speak to the great parliament of the dawn, the witness of 	this murderous midnight, 
And even if none listens to him, I shall be there and acclaim,
And even if they tear him to shreds, I shall be there to confess him before 	your guns and your gallows, O Monsters!
And even tho' you smite me with your bludgeon upon my head,
And curse me and call me foul names, and spit on my face and on my bare 	hands,
I swear that when the cock crows I shall not deny him.
And even if the power of your lie be so strong that my own mother curse me 	as a traitor with her hands clutched over her old breasts, 
And my daughters with the almighty names, turn their faces from me and call 	me coward,
And the One whose love for me is a battleflag in the storm, scream for the 	shame ofme and adjure my name, 
I swear that when the cock crows I shall not deny him.
And if you chain me and drag me before the Beast that guards the seals of 	your power, and the caitiff that conspires against the daylight 	demand my death,
And your hangman throw a black cowl over my head and tie a noose around my 	neck,
And the black ghoul that pastures on the graves of the saints dig its snout 	into my soul and howl the terrors of the everlasting beyond in my 	ears,
Even then, when the cock crows, I swear I shall not deny him.
And if you spring the trap under my feet and hurl me into the gloom, and in 	the revelation "of that instant eternal a voice shriek madly to me 
That the rope is forever unbreakable, 
That the dawn is never to blaze, 
That the night is forever invincible, 
Even then, even then, I shall not deny him.